Woo!
Yeah.
Okay, so this section is going to be speak in English.
So I hope you guys are familiar with the topic.
Maybe, maybe not.
If you are not familiar with the topic, that's okay.
Because we are going to talk about the overview of
JavaScript and TypeScript in general.
Okay, let's start with a little bit of introduction.
You can call me Aom, or if you're not sure how to
pronounce Aom in English, you may call me Salty.
The full name is SaltyAom.
I use this name on both Twitter and other places as well
where it's like the blue app, like Bluesky or something.
Everywhere else I use this name like Twitter, GitHub,
and Bluesky as well if you want to follow along.
If you are Thai, you probably know that I usually
cosplay as my favorite character to speak about
technical stuff.
Today I cosplay as Pekomama from the kind of the
company that made VTubers.
Let's just skip because about license and stuff.
Oh, I see.
So we're going to wait.
Maybe we can wait 5 minutes and start again?
Sure, okay.
Because we are a little bit earlier than time that
we have.
Actually it should be 10 minutes after this, right?
Okay, sure.
Maybe talk a little bit in general.
Maybe we can get some idea about what I'm going to
talk about today.
But we are going to restart it all again after this
10 minutes.
Is that alright?
Sure, okay.
Let's start with a little bit of quiz time, right?
Just like for fun.
Let's start with this code example.
We are going to play Who is a Millionaire?
What is the language of this code?
I'll give you a little bit of time to think about it.
Maybe like we count down like 5, 4, 3, 2, 1.
Let's show the answer.
The answer is actually JavaScript ES4, not TypeScript.
You can see the syntax here.
It looks almost identical to TypeScript, right?
But actually, this proposal was introduced in
JavaScript ES4 where maybe almost 20 years ago.
There's a proposal to add type natively to JavaScript.
This proposal was almost added to the language,
but somehow dropped it because there are too much
stuff that they want to add into the JavaScript
language.
But there's a lot of things that they can't implement
and they just skip to ES5 as we know it.
That's a little bit of history.
I think maybe we can start or should we still wait?
Okay, let's start with what is TypeScript.
TypeScript is just like JavaScript with type.
I think a lot of people know that.
If you don't know TypeScript,
it actually just adds some type annotation to JavaScript
and that's just it.
You can't actually use TypeScript in browser,
because you have to compile it
since it isn't actually a language
that you can run in the browser
and it doesn't have browser support.
So we somehow need to transpile the language
into JavaScript to run it in the browser.
We can see in this example
that this is what TypeScript is like.
You just add some colon after the parameter
and you add type to it.
So when you try to call a function with string,
it is fine.
But when you try to add a number,
it throws an error.
That's actually just what you want to add
to the language,
just add a type to it
and if the type doesn't match,
maybe throw an error or something like that.
We can see on the State of JavaScript,
in the last year,
there are a lot of people
that have been trying to adopt TypeScript
maybe in their side project and their work.
The charts show that there's a lot of people
who are enjoying TypeScript
and some people who don't enjoy it.
But since we add type to the language,
does it actually work?
If we think about it,
we can actually just surpass this error.
TypeScript doesn't actually check the type
in the runtime.
So when you pass something
that maybe TypeScript can't check,
it is going to ignore it
and pretend that everything is fine.
TypeScript is like duck type.
If it moves like a duck and quacks like a duck,
then it's probably a duck.
Let's say that you pass something
that looks like a string,
but it isn't actually a string,
it is going to work fine
because TypeScript pretends that it is a string.
Let's get back to our example.
We can see that in this example,
we pass a number and then everything is fine.
But if we pretend that the number is something else,
it is going to be fine
because TypeScript doesn't know what type of it.
So everything works fine when actually
it shouldn't be this way.
So a lot of people are trying to make TypeScript be
A lot of people trying to make TypeScript better behave
in this way.
They try to make a lot of stuff recently
and we have been using it a lot recently
that trying to fix something like this.
There's actually two solutions that we can prevent
this from happening.
The first one is we use type inference,
and the second one is transformer.
But I have to warn that both of these solutions
doesn't actually make TypeScript like a strong type
language,
but it's like some patches that we can apply
to make TypeScript a little bit better
at checking type.
Let's go over our first topic,
which is the type inference.
I think a lot of people know what Zod is.
Basically, it is a TypeScript library
that you can define what the shape of object
looks like.
And then you can check if the input,
something you have in the code base,
that need to check if the type is actually
a type or not.
You can use ðš™ðšŠðš›ðšœðšŽ or something like that
utility function.
First, you define the object in JavaScript
and then once you define the object shape,
you can use that reference to check if something else
is the same as you want or not.
So in our case, we have an object with
a username string and then we parse it using
something else.
And if it work, it is going to work,
but otherwise it's going to throw an error.
But the interesting thing is that recently
we have been adding something like getting the type
from our code.
If we see, we can see that on the last line,
we infer the type from the first one
in the JavaScript code base.
And then we use some utility call ðš£.ðš’ðš—ðšðšŽðš›
and then we get a type.
So this is what we call type inference,
is that we write the code first
and then we infer type from the code later.
Actually, we can implement something like that.
Maybe it doesn't look easy,
but actually TypeScript provides us with something
called generic.
Generic is like something, if we have written
some code in other language like maybe Rust, Java,
we can pass some type and then infer something
somewhere else.
But ultimately, TypeScript also supports
this same feature as well.
So we can create some interface of class
and then memorize the type and then provide them,
does some recursive stuff to make something
like that happen.
But it has just been supported in recent version
of TypeScript.
So maybe TypeScript 4 or later,
which isn't long ago yet,
which is the exact timeline that Zod
and some library like that have been popularized.
So after we wrote some magic type,
we can infer type from here.
Actually my previous two talks were talking about
how to implement this.
So if you want to take a deep dive,
maybe you can search in YouTube,
but I'm not sure if it is uploaded or not.
So it is great, right?
But that comes with a cost and drawback.
The first thing is that you have to make sure
that the code actually works by making sure
that the code actually validates type correctly.
And once we did that,
we have to also make sure that our type system
in the type level work as same as the code
in the runtime.
Which means that we now have to separate
code base that should function the same.
And this is very hard to implement
in our code bases.
Since I made Elysia, right?
We have a lot of black magic about typing and stuff.
We have to add unit test for type level
to make sure that everything works all right.
So since I show you something like this,
when should you write it yourself?
The answer is you shouldn't,
you should never write it in your application
code base.
Like if you have some application
that you use in production,
you need to ship a feature to your customer,
you shouldn't write that at all.
You should just let the...
oh like a lot of people are coming.
So do I need to restart or something?
We have time.
Are you guys okay?
Can we recap a little bit?
Okay, I didn't thought that there's going to be a lot
of people.
Actually, we have just surpassed halfway through.
Let's review a little bit.
I'm sorry for everyone.
I like to talk about it so much.
I want to get start quickly.
You know that we have three people who are talking as
keynote speaker, right?
I actually want to see how the other speakers are going
to speak.
Somehow we have the same timetable.
I can't apply to other speaker, which is making me mad,
actually.
So, let's restart it again.
Sorry for everyone who was here before.
Give me a minute.
I talk a little bit too much at first.
Let's review.
Today, we want to talk about TypeScript with type
integrity.
Today, we are going to talk about TypeScript with type
Obviously it's something that I'm not sure what it is
about.
Since we know that programmers are bad at naming things,
I think it's understandable.
I hope you guys forgive me for that.
A little bit of introduction.
My name is Aom in Thai, but for people somewhere else,
you can call me Salty or SaltyAom.
Basically, I am a core maintainer of Elysia.js.
It's a framework for making web server Bun, which does
a lot of black magic with typing and stuff.
This name I use on both Twitter, GitHub, and mostly
everywhere else, including some games.
If you found player with this username, it's usually me.
If you are Thai, you mostly familiar with what I have
been doing recently.
I apply to a lot of talk and conference to talk about
stuff I interested in.
Mostly the organizer usually request me to cosplay to
speak.
Also this one as well.
The organizer actually request me to maybe cosplay and
speak.
A lot of people actually follow my Instagram account
and saw that I cosplay.
Today I cosplay as Pekomama, which is from the Vtuber
company called Hololive.
I think a lot of people are familiar with it.
If you know like Pekora, Fubuki, or Gawr Gura or some
people like that.
They are Vtuber who are streaming gaming and something
like that on YouTube and Twitch.
This talk is going to be recommend for beginner levels.
We are going to give about general overview of
TypeScript.
If you don't have any experience with TypeScript,
that's fine.
If you have a little bit, that's going to help a lot.
Let's get started.
Let's start with a little bit of quiz.
I think a lot of people who were here before already
know the answer.
You can see this code, right?
It does have interface, and it does have type
annotation.
My question is what is the language of this code?
I will give you a little bit of time, like maybe 10
seconds to think about it.
People already know the answer, but for the newcomer,
maybe you can think a little bit about it.
Yeah, I think it's good time now.
The answer is JavaScript ES4.
You can see this syntax here.
It almost looks like TypeScript.
It does have type annotation.
It does have class.
It does have interface.
Actually, it also have a public and private property
as well.
But this feature was first announced in JavaScript ES4,
which is like almost 20 years ago or so.
So we almost have type support in JavaScript,
which is what we are trying to achieve today with
TypeScript, right?
But since there's a lot of history lesson,
which I actually skip,
and I don't know why they skip this version
and straight to ES5.
My guess is that they add too many features
that too hard to implement in one version.
So they just decide to skip it.
But what is TypeScript in general, right?
TypeScript is just like JavaScript with type.
That's it.
That's actually what TypeScript is.
Although it's very popular with JavaScript user,
like just adding type,
and then a lot of people who use JavaScript
then somehow magically want to use TypeScript.
It's just type,
but that's actually a lot of feature added
in the language that is dynamic type
and can get very complex quickly, like JavaScript.
So the TypeScript language itself can't be used
in the browser because the browser only knows
JavaScript,
but TypeScript isn't JavaScript.
It is just like JavaScript with additional step
that we can add some stuff into it.
And in this case, it's just we add the type to it.
So first we need to compile TypeScript to JavaScript
itself first,
and then we can use it in the browser.
But this also apply to runtime like Node.js,
but recently they ship some experimental stuff
that we can use TypeScript directly in the runtime.
Deno and Bun also add the ability to run
TypeScript file natively.
Although it is not actually native,
they just remove the type and run it as JavaScript,
but I think that works as well.
But let's recap, right?
Okay, a lot of people are already familiar with this.
We have a function,
and then maybe we say that this function
should only accept a string like a word
or something like that.
So when we call it with word, it is going to work,
but when we try to call it with the number,
it doesn't work.
So that's actually the point of TypeScript.
We just want something that we can rely on
and then make sure that we passing the correct stuff
and everything is typed correctly.
If we look at the state of JavaScript in the last year,
we can see that a lot of people have been enjoying
this feature like a lot.
Although it's just type annotation,
but actually that helps a lot in large codebase
and complex type.
A lot of stuff have been helping.
So a lot of people have been adopting TypeScript
recently.
We can see that almost 50% are satisfying down here.
And then some people doesn't want TypeScript,
they can use JavaScript.
But there's actually a problem with TypeScript itself.
So we can see this code, right?
It's we have a function that should only accept
a string,
but when we pass a number, it work fine,
but actually TypeScript doesn't actually check a type.
It only trying to make it look like
it's checking a type, but it doesn't actually check it.
So I want to introduce you to some concept called...
what is it called?
Okay, I actually forgot the term
although I just talked about it 10 minutes ago,
but it's called duck type if I recall correctly.
But it is something that say that
if it moves like a duck and quack like a duck,
then it is likely a duck.
So we have a duck here,
and we have a rubber duck here.
So if the rubber duck move like a duck
and when we squeeze it, it also quack,
then it's probably a duck.
Although it isn't what a duck we want,
but it also a duck.
So TypeScript look at these images
and then say that both are the same
because they both are a duck.
Actually, that's a concept that TypeScript
have been using.
So back to our code,
we can see that our code function normally
when we pass something like this.
But when we try to say that a number
isn't actually a number,
but it is something else,
this code somehow work perfectly fine.
So we have a number,
and we say that hey, you can see that
what if we say to TypeScript that
what if it isn't a number?
Can we make it something else?
And then it pass,
although in our codebase,
actually runtime code doesn't work.
TypeScript isn't going to complain about it
because it looks like a number.
It looks like a string.
So that's fine to TypeScript,
but isn't fine to us and customer
because it is going to throw error in the runtime
and then fail our production server.
So recently there have been an effort
to make TypeScript actually a strong type language,
although it isn't actually a strong type language,
but we are trying to get there.
So there is actually two ways to make this happen:
the first one is we are using something called
type inference,
and the second one is called transformer.
But both of these doesn't actually make
the TypeScript a strong type language.
So just a note before we start.
So, type inference, I think a lot of people know what Zod is about.
Like we define some shape in runtime,
and we validate the shape in runtime as well.
But we can also get a type from runtime into the type itself.
We don't have to duplicate the code,
say that we have an object with a username in runtime,
and we don't have to duplicate the code in the type level,
like manually writing the interface that call like user.
We actually can infer the type from runtime itself.
We write the code in the runtime and infer code to the type.
This feature has just been recently added not long ago,
like maybe two or three years,
like in TypeScript 4, not sure which version,
but there's a way to make it happen,
which is using the thing called generic.
Generic is like a function or some kind of special function,
but it behaves like a function if you think about it.
Like you accept something from the class or interface,
and then you can somehow make stuff with it.
And with that type of both,
we can make something with the code below.
So, we can see that we add some type here,
something like this, and then boom, it's going to work.
I also talk about this like two sessions ago,
like maybe three months or four months ago.
I'm not sure if it is recorded or not,
but if you find one,
please post it in comment if you are watching
from the recorded video.
But actually, it seems cool,
but it has a drawback that we have to maintain
both runtime code to make sure that runtime code
actually validate the type,
and then we have to maintain the type itself as well.
In our code bases that we are working in Elysia,
we have been like a lot of black magic with type stuff,
but it is so complex that we have to add
the unit test for type level to make sure that
runtime and type level,
both of the code match the same behavior.
So, when should we use this, right?
If you are using in the production server,
like maybe you want to try to ship stuff
to your end user, your customer,
you shouldn't write it yourself
because it is going to slow you down.
But if you are using a library, that's fine
because they have been devoting their time
in their free time to make some stuff
in the production a little bit faster.
Just let some dedicated people handle it
because it is going to consume a lot of time
to make it happen correctly.
So, this is the generic code in our code base.
You can see that we have complex stuff
from real code base, from real open source library,
and this is just like the generic.
There's a generic that accept it here,
and then we do several like 3,000 or 4,000 lines
of type to make stuff happen.
So, you can see that it is actually code base in Elysia.
I don't recommend you to look at it
if you aren't familiar with TypeScript.
But this pattern make a lot of things possible,
like tRPC, Zod, Prisma, Drizzle, and Elysia itself.
So, the second one is transformer.
You may ask, what is it?
This is actually the less known way to make it happen.
The first way is that we write a code
and transform it to type, right?
But in this approach,
we say that we have a type,
and then we turn it into a code.
So, how is that possible, right?
Actually, there's some library called typia
or typespec or io-ts that you can define a type
in TypeScript,
and then you can use that type in runtime.
How is that possible, you may ask?
TypeScript actually let you access the AST parser
and then transform it into something else.
If you are familiar with AST,
then I recommend you should check it out
because it's actually very cool.
You can do a lot of stuff with it.
But you know that AST is amazing
and it is very hard to handle it
if you are not familiar with compiler or something like that.
But the actual drawback is that
although TypeScript expose the API for handle stuff like that,
it doesn't actually let you run it in TypeScript itself.
You have to install some additional library
called ttypescript
and then you add the plugin into the compiler plugin
in TS config to make it happen.
Because TypeScript doesn't support it natively,
a lot of people aren't using it
because they want to rely on TypeScript itself,
not some external runtime.
So what happened if we took type inference to the limit,
you may ask?
We have a little project that I did in my free time.
The first one I published maybe a year ago
is called GraphQL Mobius,
which allowed us to transform
the string of the GraphQL into the type.
You can see upward here that
we have type definition writing in GraphQL
and then we pass it into class called Mobius
and then it generate the type.
Actually this doesn't run any type,
but we are actually using pattern matching in TypeScript
in type level TypeScript to create something like AST
and then pass it to the type.
This doesn't involve any runtime code at all.
There's no code generation, there's nothing.
You don't need a CLI,
you can just pass the type to the interface
and then it create an AST syntax tree
and then you can pass into the type.
So you can actually create a compiler
using pattern matching if you are crazy enough
like what I did.
But we can also pass SQL to a type as well,
not only limited to GraphQL.
So this pattern actually also applicable to gRPC
and something else if you are crazy enough.
I published both of these in GitHub
and in my Twitter as well if you are interested.
But the point is that we can make sure
that everything works like we just want auto completion
and then want some type safety when we try to run it.
But let's talk about limitation.
We already know that TypeScript doesn't actually check the type.
So we have to maintain the runtime and the type as well.
So what is the other limitation?
Why can't we write everything in type level?
Actually, there's a limit let me talk about a little bit.
This is Elysia code that we can pass the body
and then it infer type into the handler.
You can imagine this as Express.js or Fastify
or somewhere else that we have some path
and then we have some body.
We want to make sure that the body work.
We just pass the type and then it somehow check the type
in the runtime and apply the type to TypeScript.
It allows us to do a lot of thing,
but there's a little bit of limitation.
If we have been grinding LeetCode
or we know about time complexity,
the type also has the time complexity
and the delay that it can run.
Let's say that we have a very large type
and does a lot of recursive stuff.
It is going to slow our code base down a little bit.
If we use TypeScript a lot,
maybe we can see that our VS Code or IDE sometimes
take a little bit of time to apply change
or trying to start a project.
It is going to take a little bit of time
because it also does stuff in the background
that we can't see.
Let me introduce you to some CLI
that can help us visualize
how long our TypeScript type take to run.
If we run this command in your CLI
and then it is going to generate some graph like this.
We can inspect that which file,
on the bottom right, you can see which file
use how long the time.
So this file use around 300
And 66 milliseconds to type check.
And imagine that we have thousands of TypeScript files.
It is going to slow us down.
So we can't actually run a lot of type here
because it is going to slow the end user down.
It also has a limitation as well.
But one of the interesting things working with type
is that when you know you have the limitation,
you need to optimize the code.
So in the previous year,
we optimized Elysia from taking one and a half seconds
down to 400 milliseconds.
We have to think about how our code runs
in the type level a lot.
If you are not careful,
we are going to have TypeScript type stack limitation.
If you apply too much type to TypeScript,
it might say that TypeScript has a stack of 30,000,
which is just a made-up number.
But if we run a recursive type in one function,
and it does some stuff in the background
that calls after 30,000 times,
it will throw an error saying the type is infinite
or it took too long to check the type.
So TypeScript just assumes that maybe this type
doesn't work because it has some recursive type
happening that doesn't know when to end.
But this also applies to functional programming.
Maybe you have some loop that you forgot to exit,
and it throws an error because it's too long
to compute.
So talking about a lot of stuff here,
we can see that we can make a lot with TypeScript,
but how about the future?
Can it really be type safe?
From my own perspective,
maybe not yet.
It might be possible to make TypeScript behave
like a strong type language,
but we aren't there yet.
At least maybe two or three years
from what I can see.
Maybe five years or 10 years, we don't know.
But what we can do now is apply runtime validation
and then infer a type to TypeScript
to try to make type as accurate as possible.
It is actually what Zod has been trying to do,
and other libraries as well,
which I usually call "an illusion of type safety."
Because this code isn't actually type safe.
If we have some complex stuff and Zod has some bug,
let's say Zod somehow can't check if the username
is string or not,
it creates a mismatch between runtime
and the type level.
JavaScript can't check it.
So if the library has a bug,
it's going to be out of sync on the type.
So we actually don't have type safety built in yet,
but we are almost there.
We could only create an illusion,
like it does look like it is type safe,
but it isn't actually type safe
because it isn't built into the language itself.
But we are very close to making it possible.
With community libraries like Zod,
and companies like Prisma and Drizzle
have been trying to aggressively use TypeScript
to make an illusion of TypeScript
look as real as possible.
We are almost there.
But for now, we can just rely on the library
to make sure that every type stuff
and every magic stuff actually works,
and we can only trust the library to make it work.
But how about the source?
The source is... yeah, trust me, bro.
But actually the source is you.
The source is you because if you think about it,
we are relying on open source maintainer to maintain
our type, right?
And if the situation that I put up like maybe
the type of source are out of sync, they have some bug,
you have the ability to report the bug to the maintainer
to file an issue and let them fix it.
That's how you can help TypeScript and JavaScript
like illusion of type as real as possible because
it is almost impossible to make TypeScript really
type-safe.
But we can take a little bit part of ourselves
and trying to find an issue, trying to solve it
as a community together.
So we are trying to get closer and closer to that reality.
And the most important part is that please file an issue,
please talk to the open source maintainer,
please trying to connect with the library,
with the maintainer of the library you are using
because it is going to help a lot.
Also it doesn't have to be financially,
just maybe hang around and sometimes just file a bug
or something like that.
But there's also something called open source pledge
which say that your company does a lot of like maybe
million dollar per year,
maybe we can just donate a little bit like maybe
$10 a month or $100 a month to open source maintainer
that we are using.
Because this problem are very real like if you know
what does it call like XKCD or something like that.
Yeah, I think we already know like XKCD also highlight
that our industry are relying on some effort of
part-time open source maintainer that doesn't actually
get any money at all.
And then if the project fail or like we can see that
if the project fail like maybe the maintainer
don't want to maintain the project anymore,
the industry are going to collapse and then we have
a supply chain attack and something like that.
But please really just connect with open source maintainer
that maintain that you are using.
So also shout out to Scalar that we are since I am
maintainer of Elysia, I also benefit from this
open source pledge.
There's something called Scalar which is like
a Swagger UI alternative.
So they trying to connect with us.
At first, they trying to connect with us and then
they also help us maintain our Swagger package
and then also maybe they also ask like some kind of idea
like how do you feel about the project,
like how may we improve it or something like that.
And then they also apply to the open source pledge
and help me maintain and like Elysia in general.
So I think that's it for today for me.
So congratulations for going through like a very long time.
So if you have any question, feel free to ask.
Also, à¸žà¸µà¹ˆà¸Šà¹‰à¸²à¸‡ doesn't actually send the QR code yet.
We will change the computer to have scanner over here.
Okay, so if you have any question, feel free to ask.
Any question?
Yeah, sure.
What is it?
Yeah, so well as you mention your project Elysia
and you mentioned code safety.
When you are working on a large complex project
with larger codebases like Elysia,
how do you maintain code safety in your project?
Yeah, actually since we have a lot of complex type
like 3 to 4,000 line of type,
I try to break it down from a very long line of type
to maybe a little bit smaller of utility type
that I can write a unit test on.
So let's say that I have something like this.
Give me a second.
Okay, I have something like this, right?
That I can input the shape of an object
and then infer it to the body.
So at first, I doesn't write the test
or doesn't write the feature to make this possible
at first.
At first, I was just like I write something like
ðš.ðš˜ðš‹ðš“ðšŽðšŒðš and then trying to make a unit test
with it to see if it work.
If it work, then I can maybe try to generic
to the method patch here to see that
if it infer type from here and if it work,
I write a unit test for that.
And then if it work, I try to gradually apply.
I think you know the concept, but I think we just like
maybe if you are not sure like if you have a complex type
and then we need to make it actually accurate,
maybe we can write a unit test for that.
Okay, thank you so much.
Another question?
Yep, sure.
Alright.
Okay, wait.
Yeah sure.
So you talk about your optimization on your library, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, in type level, right?
Right right right.
Okay. So there's actually a lot of stuff.
The first thing first is that the big O notation.
If we grind LeetCode, there's like some algorithm
to like make some stuff faster,
but which is is a part of what make this possible.
The second one is that TypeScript actually provide
a lot of stuff like there's something called
invariance and covariance that it actually allowed us
to like make how it is a little bit complex,
but in a nutshell, it actually allowed us to like
make the union and intersection a little bit faster.
And since every method in Elysia somehow return
a new type, a little bit of invariance that maybe
boost up 20% or 30% each somehow gradually build up
into a smaller type here.
But we also actually have a blog post written
for this as well.
So like if we go to elysia.js and then we go to blog,
and then in this one, and then in type inference
improvement, we have oh did I wrote it here?
Okay, sorry, wrong one.
Okay, this one.
Maybe give me a little bit of time.
Maybe this one.
Actually, I forgot, but it is somewhere in this
Improves startup time.
I think maybe this one.
Yeah, but okay, here.
I think it should be linked to my Twitter,
but I can't find it, but it is somewhere
in one of these blog posts, which I can't find,
but is somewhere here.
But to recap, it is actually big O notation
that we can improve.
And the second one is that covariance and invariance,
which is some annotation called in and out.
The third one are constant generic, which when you try
to infer a type from an object, it is going to infer
as some mutable type, but you can also say that
the type doesn't have to change.
It is if the type doesn't change, it can maybe help
improve type inference a little bit faster.
The fourth one are the generic itself.
So if we go to this slide here somewhere here.
Okay, somewhere here.
Yeah.
Actually, this one you can see that we have a lot of
generic parameter here like eight or around eight
parameter, right?
But if you think about it, we can at first glance,
we can make it just one parameter.
So like why do we need to have eight parameter here?
The first one is that there's something called
inference constructor inference.
So like let's say that if you have a constructor,
let's say the constructor first we create
a new instance, and then say that if this class
has a prefix, we can pass it into the object, right?
But in this case, if the parameter only require
the type to be string, it doesn't make sense
to make the object to infer the type from.
So like we have to separate all of the parameter
that need to be memorized into each individual field
to reduce the complexity of the type and reduce
the big O notation in the first thing
that I mentioned.
So like there's a lot of stuff to think about
when you write a type like constant generic here
and covariance parameter here and a lot of stuff
like that which actually, you can check out
the guide on the TypeScript documentation.
They wrote something like tail call optimization
for type and a lot of stuff that can help our time
to make to get it faster.
You can search it in TypeScript documentation.
There's a section written for that.
Thank you.
Last question, me?
Yeah.
Anyone has a question?
Again?
Okay, sure.
You want to ask a question?
What will be the name of the next major release
of Elysia?
Okay, let's recap.
Every release in Elysia has the name.
This is inspired from Vue.js.
You know that every major Vue release also have
a name for that release.
They name after the anime.
The latest one are like
[Quintessential Quintuplets].
The latest one are also name after the anime.
If we look from here, from every block release
version, you can see that we have some name
after the version.
The first one are The Blessing from YOASOBI.
I think from YOASOBI, from this song.
I'm not going to meme it, but I think a lot of
people know the song.
Every major release follow the same naming
convention.
Back to the question.
The next major release are called Supersymmetry.
They are from Supersymmetry from game called
Tone Sphere.
If you play some rhythm game, I think a lot of
people may know it.
But otherwise, it is a very nice song.
The reason that I pick this name for the next
version is that, in the next major release of
Elysia version, we are focusing on adapter and
multiple runtime support.
Currently Elysia can mainly run on Bun, but maybe
you can also run it in Deno if you can hack the
type and hack the runtime stuff.
But in the next version, we are trying to make it
possible to run in Node.js as well and trying to
make it possible to run in many runtime as
possible.
The name Supersymmetry are from some theoretical
concept that, in a nutshell, there's two version
of the same thing.
So you have one version in Bun and you also have
the other version in Node that exist in parallel.
That's the name of the next version.
Yay!